README.md, before:

[![pipeline status](http://gitlab.heili.eu/lukas/dynuiprefresher/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](http://gitlab.heili.eu/lukas/dynuiprefresher/-/commits/master)
# DynuIPRefresher
A lightweight C++ application to setup a service for refreshing a dynamic IP to the Dynu servers. 
Dynu.com is a free DDns service and provides an API.

## Installation
Download the latest Release at [Release_Page](https://github.com/Lukas-Heiligenbrunner/DynuIPRefresher/releases).
I'm providing executables for Debian/Ubuntu (.deb) and RHEL/Debian (.rpm). 
But you can still compile the code my your own (see build section).

## Configuration
There is a configuration file `/etc/iprefresher.cfg` where you have to specify the DYNU API key (get it from their homepage), the domainid and your domain.
Furthermore, you can optionally specify a Telegram API key and a Chat ID if you want to be notfied when your local ip changes.

To enable and start the service: 
`systemctl enable iprefresher.service` and `systemctl start iprefresher.service`


## Build
## Basic Build
### Download source files

`git clone https://github.com/Lukas-Heiligenbrunner/DynuIPRefresher.git`

### install build dependencies

`libcurl`
`libconfig`

#### Debian:
`apt install libcurl4-openssl-dev`

#### Fedora:
`dnf install libcurl-devel libconfig-devel`

#### Alpine Linux:
Compiler dependencies:

`apk add make cmake g++`

Lib dependencies:

`apk add libcurl curl-dev libconfig libconfig-dev`

Packaging dependencies:

`apk add dpkg rpm`


#### dependencies for package build
`dpkg` --> debian/ubuntu package

`rpmbuild` --> Fedora/RedHat/CentOS package

### cmake project
cd into downloaded files and Generate makefiles:

`cmake -S . -B build`

### compile project

`make`

[root] install it to the system

`make install`

(optional) create Linux packages

`make package`



### Windows cross build
Set Winbuild flag in CMakeList.txt.

Dependencies:
* MinGW Compiler
* MinGW-libcurl
* MinGW-libconfig++

Optional dependencies
* NSIS Pack tool (for creating installer)
* doxygen (for generating html doc)

Some addition configuration of lib paths may be needed in CMakeList.txt. 
`make package` will pack it into a NSIS installer for Windows.

Commit message:

added usage info to readme

README.md, after:

[![pipeline status](http://gitlab.heili.eu/lukas/dynuiprefresher/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](http://gitlab.heili.eu/lukas/dynuiprefresher/-/commits/master)
# DynuIPRefresher
A lightweight C++ application to setup a service for refreshing a dynamic IP to the Dynu servers. 
Dynu.com is a free DDns service and provides an API.

## Installation
Download the latest Release at [Release_Page](https://github.com/Lukas-Heiligenbrunner/DynuIPRefresher/releases).
I'm providing executables for Debian/Ubuntu (.deb) and RHEL/Debian (.rpm). 
But you can still compile the code my your own (see build section).

## Configuration
There is a configuration file `/etc/iprefresher.cfg` where you have to specify the DYNU API key (get it from their homepage), the domainid and your domain.
Furthermore, you can optionally specify a Telegram API key and a Chat ID if you want to be notfied when your local ip changes.

To enable and start the service: 
`systemctl enable iprefresher.service` and `systemctl start iprefresher.service`

## Usage
First of all configure the right keys in the `/etc/iprefresher.cfg` or `%appdata%\DynuIpRefresher\iprefresher.cfg` config file.

Afterwards use the following options: 

```
help page: 
[-h] [--help]  print this help page
[-v] [--version] print the software version
[-f] [--force] force refresh of ip
[-l] [--loop] infinite loop to refresh ip every five minutes
[-c] [--checkconfig] validate configuration
[-ip] [--currentip] get current global ip
[no argument] normal ip check and refresh
```


## Build
## Basic Build
### Download source files

`git clone https://github.com/Lukas-Heiligenbrunner/DynuIPRefresher.git`

### install build dependencies

`libcurl`
`libconfig`

#### Debian:
`apt install libcurl4-openssl-dev`

#### Fedora:
`dnf install libcurl-devel libconfig-devel`

#### Alpine Linux:
Compiler dependencies:

`apk add make cmake g++`

Lib dependencies:

`apk add libcurl curl-dev libconfig libconfig-dev`

Packaging dependencies:

`apk add dpkg rpm`


#### dependencies for package build
`dpkg` --> debian/ubuntu package

`rpmbuild` --> Fedora/RedHat/CentOS package

### cmake project
cd into downloaded files and Generate makefiles:

`cmake -S . -B build`

### compile project

`make`

[root] install it to the system

`make install`

(optional) create Linux packages

`make package`



### Windows cross build
Set Winbuild flag in CMakeList.txt.

Dependencies:
* MinGW Compiler
* MinGW-libcurl
* MinGW-libconfig++

Optional dependencies
* NSIS Pack tool (for creating installer)
* doxygen (for generating html doc)

Some addition configuration of lib paths may be needed in CMakeList.txt. 
`make package` will pack it into a NSIS installer for Windows.
